Section 1
00:00:00
The question we'll focus on today is, "How can you use the central ideas of a text to determine and to assess the author's argument?" Now, in the warm up, we learned that Ralph Waldo Emerson was the founder of Transcendentalism. His lectures and essays were well developed and well-reasoned to support his ideas. So we will use excerpts from two of Emerson's essays to
00:00:22
help us to learn how to determine and to summarize essential ideas of a text. We'll also then take those central ideas and learn how to determine and to assess the author's argument.
Section 2
00:00:01
You'll be learning how to summarize and assess the central ideas in Emerson's essays. Now some of the vocabulary in Emerson's essays can be kind of challenging. So it's really good to start with the strategy in place that you know you're going to use to find that central idea. Now before you start to read with that purpose though, really what you should do first is just read through the
00:00:19
essay and just enjoy it. After you've read through it once, then you can move on and start to think about re-reading and applying this strategy to find that central idea. Now the first step to find the central idea is to identify and to paraphrase the central idea of each paragraph using some of the key words. So what you want to do is ask yourself, what are all these
00:00:40
sentences have in common that makes them have a central theme? So you're really identifying some of those repeated words or repeated ideas in that specific paragraph. And after you've thought about that and come up with an idea, then what you can do is paraphrase your thoughts into your own words to make that central idea. Now paraphrasing is really particularly good to use when
00:01:01
you're looking at smaller portions of text like a paragraph in the whole essay. You might find it helpful in the next step to use a graphic organizer because in this step, you're going to search the text to find some details that do support that central idea. And a graphic organizer like this can be really helpful. It lets you kind of list some of the different details
00:01:19
you're seeing in a passage and then come up with that one central idea on top that connects all of those details together. Let's actually take a look at a passage by Emerson in order to determine that central idea. So in his essay "Nature," Emerson writes, "To go into solitude, a man needs to retire as much from this chamber as from society.
00:01:44
I'm not solitary whilst I read and write, though nobody is with me. But if a man would be alone, let him look at the stars." So let's take a look and analyze this part of the text. First thing we're going to do is identify and paraphrase. So we're going to be looking for any sort of repeated ideas or words. And the first thing I see here is actually the word solitude
00:02:05
and the word solitary that are both in this text. Those kind of mean the same thing as alone, which I see in that last sentence as well. So I'm already seeing a pattern that these sentences seem to have something to do with being alone. And in particular, the first part says, "To go into solitude." So it's possible that this has to do with finding a place to be alone with your thoughts.
00:02:26
And in the last sentence, it even tells us more specifically where that place is. If a man does want to be alone, he needs to look at the stars. So it's talking again about that idea of nature. So once I start to develop that central idea, I need to find some details that are going to support that central idea.
00:02:44
So if I look through-- OK, so to go into solitude, he needs to retire from his chamber, from society. He says, "I'm not solitary when I read and write." So it seems like you're not really alone if you're still interacting with some text of some kind. But if you do want to be alone, you just have to look at the stars.
00:03:02
So now that I have some of these details in mind, I can start to develop my central idea and create this graphic organizer. If you look here, the central idea that we've developed is that to be truly solitary, a person must be alone in nature. And I know that's a great central idea because all these details relate to it.
00:03:19
So if a person is near another person, they're not alone. If they're even reading or writing, they're not alone. But if they're looking at the stars or they're in nature, then they're alone. All those details move up to that central idea. Now we're going to be reading a whole essay. And the third step then in this process is then you want to synthesize the main idea of the whole essay.
00:03:38
Now to do that, this central idea here is going to be super key. So you're going to take the central idea of all these different paragraphs you're looking at. And you're going to synthesize those and condense those into one central main idea for the whole essay. So we're going to get a chance to practice that now. And you're going to be reading a passage by Emerson to
00:03:55
determine the central idea.
Section 5
00:00:01
After reading Emerson's essay Nature, you're going to be asked to summarize the central ideas of the text. Now, so far you've practiced how to determine the central ideas by identifying and paraphrasing the central idea of a paragraph and then supporting that idea with details. You'll also apply these same steps to an entire essay and write a summary.
00:00:22
So to summarize is to concisely restate the central ideas of a longer text in your own words. We synthesize the ideas and details of each paragraph, and then use that to summarize the central idea of the entire text. And the way you do that is you want to make sure that you revisit the central ideas and details from each paragraph. Then you want to look for a common theme
00:00:44
among all those ideas. And then, finally, you'll write a summary that states the central idea and includes supporting details. Now, it should be a paragraph of at least four sentences. Your summary needs to encompass the author's central idea in its entirety. So it's very similar to paraphrasing the main idea of a paragraph, just on a broader scale.
