Section 1
00:00:00
TEACHER: Hi, and welcome to today's lesson in physical science. My name's Mr. [? Provencia. ?] And I'll be your instructor today as we talk about measuring motion. Now, things are moving around us every day. And today our whole goal is really just to try to get some terms that we can share with others.
00:00:15
And also, we're going to learn how to apply numbers to motion so that we can-- instead of just using, wow, they're going fast. Or they're going slow. But we can actually have some concrete numbers that we can tell people, oh, they're going exactly this quickly or exactly this slowly. And we're going to explain that today.
00:00:32
There's four objectives in today's lesson. The first one, we're going to be learning about a term called the frame of reference. And then we're going to talk about the term speed. And then we're going to distinguish between speed and velocity. So all those words I'm underlining are new vocabulary words for you to learn today.
00:00:47
And then we're going to be just solving some story problems that relate to all of these terms. So let's talk about motion. Now in order to tell if something is moving, you have to have some sort of object or environment that you can compare it to. And we call that a reference point. For instance, this pen, you can tell is moving across your
00:01:10
screen because of my face. You can see it moving in front of my face. So you'd be using my face as a reference. The same thing, if someone was running on a track, the reference is the track. We're using the track to see how far they're moving. And if you're riding in an airplane, you walk down the aisle.
00:01:29
You're using the aisle as your frame of reference to see that something's moving. Now we're going to talk about a couple of other terms. We're going to define the term distance really fast. Distance is just a matter of how far you go. And we measure distance in meters or miles or kilometers, centimeters, inches, all those are distances. And if someone is going to run--
00:01:48
let's say they started this race at the starting line. And they ran around this track. I'm going the wrong direction. But you get the point. They're running around the track. They would run a distance of 400 meters. However, with the term displacement, displacement is how much the position changes.
00:02:05
How far did the object move from its original-- or from the reference point? And so if I started here, and I went around that track again and ended back up where I started, my position from start to finish actually hasn't changed at all. We're back to zero. We're back at the same spot. And so my displacement would actually be zero meters
00:02:27
because my position hasn't changed. So two words that are very similar. And, in some cases, they actually will be the same amount. For instance, if I'm running from this part of the field to that part, because it's a straight line, the distance and the displacement would actually be the same value. And that will always be the case whenever you're going in
00:02:47
a straight line. However, when we start changing directions, that's when distance and displacement start getting different values. So let's talk about speed and velocity. The definition of speed is just how fast an object moves. And we measure speed in things like meters per second or kilometers per hour.
00:03:06
Notice what we have here. Meters is a measurement of a distance or a displacement. And seconds is a measure of time. So it's how much ground or how much distance you're covering per unit of time. And here's a graph. This is a graph that's saying how much distance we're covering per time.
00:03:25
And you can actually figure out how fast these objects are going by looking at something called the slope on the graph. The slope is how steep this graph is right here. And the slope tells us the speed. And so you can calculate the slope. And we calculate slope by taking-- that's the equation for slope right there. You take the y value of your second point, which right here
00:03:48
is 60, minus the y value of the first y value. So you can see that right here, 60 minus 30. And then you're going to take the x value of the second point minus the x value of the first one. And you can see that down here. So we have 60 minus 30 on top. So we have 60 minus 30. You can see it down there.
00:04:08
And then 20 minus 10. And you're going to get 30 divided by 10, which will give you 3. And you can see that in here as well. So the slope of this object, it is traveling three meters for every second. As it's traveling, that's its speed. It's covering three meters per second of travel.
00:04:34
We can also find average speed, just by using that equation. And really this is just what we just did, distance divided by time. When we found slope, we took the distance traveled divided by how long it took. And we found slope. Well, like we said, the slope is going to be used to find
00:04:50
the speed as well. Now average speed doesn't mean you're keeping the same speed the entire time. For instance, if I am traveling to work, let's say work was 10 miles away. That's my distance. And let's say it took me half an hour. Half an hour is 0.5 hours.
00:05:08
My average speed, 10 divided by 0.5, would be 20, is 20 miles per hour. Does that mean that I traveled 20 miles an hour the entire trip? No. What that means is that my average speed was 20. Sometimes I might have been going 60. Sometimes I might have been going zero.
00:05:26
Sometimes I could've been going 20 or 25. My speeds ranged the entire time as I traveled. I go on a road that's 60 miles an hour. I have another road where I'm in a parking lot going 5 or 10 miles an hour. So the whole entire trip averaged out to be 20 miles per hour. And that's my average speed.
00:05:44
The term instantaneous speed, notice the root word here, instant. It's the speed at that instant. If you want to know the speed at that instant in a car, you look at your speedometer on the dashboard. And that's about as close as we have in our cars being an instantaneous speed. But that's telling you how fast you're going
00:06:03
at any given point. When I was telling you I was going 60 at one point, that's my instantaneous speed down the fast road Five miles an hour is my instantaneous speed in the parking lot. And then here's a new term for us is velocity. You've probably heard this term before. But what velocity is, velocity-- I try to get across to my students.
00:06:22
Velocity really is speed with one exception. We have to add a direction on the end of it. So instead of just saying, you're going 60 miles an hour. To make it a velocity, you have to say you're going 60 miles an hour north or east or down that road or down the hill. You give some direction behind it. And you have a velocity.
00:06:43
And velocity is calculated very similarly as speed, except we're using displacement instead of distance. We're using displacement instead of distance to find answers. And a lot of times, whether you put it-- like we said before, when you're on a straight line, the distance and the displacement will be the same.
00:07:03
And so it's really not a big difference. But if you're, for instance, going around that track, remember, we said the distance was 400 meters, like we said before. And the displacement was zero meters. Now, if that took, let's say 100 seconds, that would be four meters per second up here. Well if that took 100 seconds, 0 divided by 100 is 0 meters
00:07:27
per second. So the average speed would be four meters per second. But the average velocity will be zero meters per second. So there is a difference there. Sometimes if you're on a straight line, there isn't. But if you're turning or you're changing directions at all, then the numbers will become different. So let's go through a practice problem.
00:07:46
Here we have, metal stakes are sometimes placed in a glacier. A glacier is just a big chunk of ice up in the mountains. And they move. They slowly go down the mountain. And they place these stakes in there to help measure a glacier's movement. "For several days in 1936, Alaska's Black Rapids glacier surged as swiftly as 89 meters per day," almost a football
00:08:05
field in one day, down the valley. It says, "Find the glacier's velocity in meters per second." It says, "Remember to include direction." Why? Because they're asking for velocity. So we need to make sure we include direction on this. OK, so first I'll list the unknowns and known values. What we're looking for is we're trying to find velocity in meters per second.
00:08:24
The things we do know, we know the displacement is 89 meters. And we know the time is one day. Now, in order to get our velocity, we need to change that time into seconds. Since our velocity is in meters per second, our time needs to be in seconds as well. So we need to convert days into seconds. I just kind of kept multiplying out.
00:08:46
And there's how many seconds is in one day. And now we write the equation in. Velocity equals displacement divided by time. And then we plug our numbers in. 89 meters is our displacement. 86,400 seconds is our time. We divide it. And here is our answer.
00:09:04
It's a very small number. Now, that is equal to about one millimeter, one millimeter per second. But that adds up to being almost a football field in a day. OK, a second problem, here we go. It says, "Find the velocity in meters per second of a swimmer who swims 110 meters towards the shore in 72 seconds." So
00:09:24
what are we looking for? We're looking for velocity. What's our velocity? It says it swims 110 meters. So that's going to be our displacement. Just going to put D-I-S-P for displacement, equals 110 meters. And our time, I'll just put t for time, is 72 seconds.
00:09:43
The equation that we have, remember, it was velocity equals displacement divided by time. So when we plug these numbers in, our velocity, which I'm going to call v, is equal to 110 meters divided by 72 seconds. And the answer comes up to be 1.53. And our units is meters over seconds. So our answer comes out to be meters over seconds.
00:10:16
So there's our answer, 1.53 meters per second. All right, now one thing that is interesting about velocity is you can actually combine velocities together. I'm going to just do my best at drawing. Here's a little stick figure airplane. If that airplane was flying along at 400 miles per hour and it gets a back wind of 100 miles per hour-- so strong gusts, and it gets into a tailwind where it's
00:10:47
going with it-- these velocities can actually add together. And that plane will be able to fly at 500 miles per hour. So these velocities will actually combine together. So just in review, when we talk about a frame of reference, remember, that's what we compare our object to to see if it's moving or not. And usually, try to pick a frame of reference that is the
00:11:11
same as you in terms of motion. If you're on a train, your train will be your frame of reference. If you're walking, then the ground is your frame of reference and so forth. We talked about speed. Remember, speed is distance divided by time. And we also talked about velocity, which we said is
00:11:25
speed just with direction. And then we did some problems. And if you aren't sure how those problems are, go look at them again. Watch them again. And get a better understanding of what we did on those problems that we went through. So thanks for your time.
00:11:38
Have a great day.
Measuring Motion
Direct Instruction  Complete
100%Attempt 1
Highlighter
CyanMagentaGreeenClear Highlights
Calculators
Resources
